---
layout: post
title: "Living a cyberlife"
---

Some posts are written with grit and a lot of thoughts. This one was such. My take on people being enslaved day after day in the 'social' illusion on the web.

_Here goes the original post:_

This one is a bitter tribute to the growing panorama of socially integrated web services surrounding us. A thing that is quickly becoming a serious issue of privacy breach and information overload.

Lets focus on this with a bit more scrutiny. The story began in 2004 when two engineers from Harvard University founded Facebook Inc. And the scene is becoming more and more oblivious ever since. Now for past 6 years, Facebook has ruled the social network on the web. Not that other big shots are happy with it, they are trying every single bit of their technical expertise to overthrow the giant. Earlier, with almost a 600 million user strong Facebook seemed almost impervious, but now the times are changing.

Companies have come up with new ideas and substitutes of Facebook to counter them on a battleground that was created by Facebook itself. And yes, they are strong! I am trying to emphasize on the names like Loopt, Foursquare, Gowalla and other such services that are fast becoming a thing of the young generation. We hear and use the term “check-in” more often than ever. Facebook made it possible to get in touch with people remotely and to stay friends online for as long as we wanted. While, the aforementioned names now allow people to track their buddies on the map in real-time and also let them meet up if they are somewhere near to each other. Latest to the battlefield is Google, and it was foreseen, wasn’t it! Google was expected to enter the fast growing social media and networking market ever since the downfall of Orkut. Having already captured YouTube, this was the only thing not in the ultimate supremacy of Google that it enjoyed in almost every other area on web. Yes, I am talking about Google+. Looking at the beta version or the “invitee only” version, it looks way cooler and addictive already than Facebook. It also boasts to add to the features Facebook already has. So the war is only getting stronger and we are surely going to get better and more integrated products in near future.

But, the million dollar question is, is this all worth it? or better put, is this all necessary? Many would instantly go affirmative with their answers but I would like to bring a few things into perspective here.

With the advent of Facebook and Orkut-like sites, people are becoming more and more addicted to what I call ‘Cyberlife’. Yes, its the life we live on the internet. A person is more tend to get recognition from his or her buddies online and it kind of gets competitive. More ‘Like’s you get or more email subscriptions you receive gives all the more inner satisfaction nowadays. We are forgetting the real-life essence of meeting people face to face and talking in person and now prefer to chat with them on Skype and Facebook. More like robots, we are now driven by our cyber avatars! Average human logs in in his account at least 2 times for checking notifications and to know what his friends are doing! We now do not care if we know the person we are chatting with or not, and just like to spend hours talking on the net with him/her. I should not need to bring the fact in line that sometimes it becomes pretty hard to talk for even 5 minutes with a person face to face with whom you are used to talking for hours on net. This is brutal for both, society and personality development.

Not to mention the most dangerous aspect of this situation – the data overload and privacy issue. Companies like Facebook and Google are constantly reprimanded in public for collecting user data in bulk. We do not know what they do to our personal information and photographs we keep uploading. Our emails are always sold to information seeking companies. There are no exceptions to it. One can not explain billions of dollars in revenue only with the advertising model that Facebook has. No, its simply implausible. Also, Foursquare, Gowalla and other companies are essentially keeping track of people on the maps. How intriguing is that! Where is the social or personal privacy issue there? Nowadays our whole lives are like an open book on the web. Consider a person named X. You take X’s Facebook profile, his Foursquare and Flickr profiles and if you combine them, you have his whole lifetime worth of data in front of you! Including his photographs, recent happenings, his address, probably phone number, email id and possibly his recent location too! Now it does seem scary, doesn’t it!

Another thing is the Internet closure or the purity and honesty of the type of content we see on the internet. Facebook and Google now control that. They are infamous for modifying the internet we ‘see’ according to that even though they never confess it openly. This is very bad for the ‘openness’ or the availability of knowledge as a whole to an individual. We no longer get the pure independent unbiased information on the Internet but only get what is personalised for us in one or the other way based on our past history and our taste. Nah! that is not what internet is supposed to be like! I should not be delivered the stuff Google wants me to see! But this is happening without us having the slightest clue about it. Recently a scam was bared for all to see about the iPhones sending user location data to Apple servers and them tracking their every users globally!

Its good to live on the internet. Everyone does it myself included! But some amount of discretion is needed. Things are only getting worse with Google entering with a possibly better product then ever. Hence I would like to propose that live a Cyberlife, nothing wrong with that, but do not forget to ‘socialize’ in the real sense once in a while.

After all, logging into your social network online is not ‘socialising’! 