---
layout: post
title: "The C and U"
---

There are some decisions in life you cherish more often further down the line. Even after years you feel that it was that day when you decided to do something that changed the course of life for you. 

I went through something similar a while ago. At the time of doing an internship in my graduation, I chose to do a project in a company. This was the single most important decision I took (without thinking) in the last 2 years that propelled my career like nothing else. Why would that be so important?

Well, there are times when you are sitting in the classroom exploring concepts and academic journals and you think what use they all might be of to you. This is a totally valid 'question yourself' moment. You actually want to know what you can do with all these pages of equations and theories. The university does everything to make your mind stimulate amazing things and lead you to research new things to make a difference in your field. But for some people (those like me), this is not enough. They want to see how these technologies actually change people's lives. How they transform the way society functions. 

I believe that the ultimate goal of any research or scientific achievement should be to benefit humanity. For a student, to be able to witness this actually happening is a big deal. To be able to see people asking you about how a certain technology functions and how it would affect them is fascinating. 

This is only possible once you cross those holy walls of the classrooms and laboratories and see what problems and challenges are there in the actual world. What makes society tick and what doesn't. Because obviously you do not want to build something or discover something that will stay in a bookshelf of a century old scientific journal. You want to make (build) something that affects the lives of millions and more. The rest is simply forgotten and is of no value to a common man. 

I joined Capgemini 6 months ago and to be honest, the way I have seen technology act as the driving force for businesses is unprecedented. Those industrial diagrams and 'In actual world...' statements in textbooks actually make sense now. The challenges we face in the society as engineers are far more complex and obscure than those 4-variable-4-equation math problems. Here life gets serious and technology even more so. A bad decision causes loss and a bad performance causes apprehension. But the stuff you get to learn? Immense! There is something that money can never buy and that is experience. The days I spent at the company learning how they sell technology, how they handle the low level and high level network design and how they manage catering services and infrastructure to large businesses have been truly amazing. 

Moral of the story: if you are given an opportunity to have such an experience and you deny it (without reasonable arguments), I think you already have made a mistake. Go out there and learn things hands-on. See how professionals work and see how technology works and how it is sold in actual world. Because, it's just worth it.

After all in life, experiences matter more than performances. 