---
layout: post
title: "Sen-Yes-Sors!"
---

Just came across this app called [Cardiio](http://www.cardiio.com), which measures the rate of the heartbeats from the light reflected off your face when blood is pumped by the heart. Needless to say, it is an MIT Media Lab research and an IEEE research publication. 

Not totally irrelevant, but lately the human drive for data munching is increasing. We want to measure everything. Be it our medical cycles to the daily activities to the social metrics, we want to quantify everything. It all started with web-analytics and only God knows where it will all end. What this does to us and our daily lives is that it has put necessary and unnecessary sensors in our lives. Everywhere!

Not to say there is anything wrong, but its still getting out of hands now. Right from the morning being surrounded by electronics and sensor equipment ready to take our activities and lives piece by piece and measure it. Are we that much of a typified lab rats?

I hope there is some discretion on personal level. Because the way I see it, common norm is quickly becoming such that one is expected to reveal as much information and data as possible about his/her own life and the tools are really handy (now more than ever) to do so!

I read this somewhere and it immediately drove a point home:

"In the end, I don’t wake up in the morning, look myself in the mirror and ask whether my TV has enough pixels, my tweets got any retweets or if my Facebook posts got enough likes, but I do wonder how I’m going to get enough exercise, eat better, sleep well or manage my weight despite all the other things going on in my life."

Sanity check required.