---
layout: post
title: "Why Code"
---

The holy grail skill of the 21st century - **Coding**.

Why are there so many people learning to code nowadays? Why are there so many websites focusing on teaching you to code? Why are there so many avenues for you to test and deploy your code online?

It's all in the technology.

Code is empowering. Code is enlightening. Code teaches you aspects about nature and logic and algorithms that seemed obscure at the first glance. Code makes you think. Code makes you make choices. Code makes you evaluate your decisions.

More than anything else, code makes you iterate. Over and over again. And that's how coding teaches you perseverance and dedication.

But inherently, coding itself shouldn't be the objective. Learning to code is great but it's only the beginning. Using that knowledge to solve daunting problems is the real deal. Using code to do the unthinkable is the idea.

Building something useful with code is the answer.

Generally, coding poses a scary entry-barrier for the beginners. That's why when you crack it open and learn to code, it feels like an achievement. It really is but you shouldn't stop there.

###But

That's only half the battle. Because producing something that didn't exist before, with the knowledge you acquired along the way, makes a difference. You learning to code doesn't make any difference to the world. It's just an enabler.

<div class="aside">So take this as a motivation to go out there and make something amazing. Any language, any compiler or any framework. People don't care as long as it works the way it should. People don't care as long as it's useful.</div>
